ec2-snapshotter
---------------

This is a utility to create and maintain snapshots of one or more ec2
volumes based on a schedule defined in a config file.

System Requirements
-------------------

- perl v5.10
  - Net::Amazon::EC2
  - Amazon::SNS (only if SNS notifications are configured)
  - YAML

Configuration
-------------

A sample configuration is in the etc directory.  You need to configure

- the AWS region
- your accesskey
- your secretkey
- the volume source
- the volumes (if volume source is 'config')
- the snapshot schedule (for the wildcard at least, but optionally for specific volumes)
- the purge schedule (for the wildcard at least, but optionally for specific volumes)

configure the instance ID in the configuration by setting instance-id-source
to 'config' and setting instance-id to the ID to use.  This allows you to
use ec2-snapshotter from somewhere other than the EC2 instance whose volumes
you are working with.

Snapshot Schedule
-----------------

The snapshot schedule must be defined either for specific volumes or for the
wildcard entry *.  If a snapshot schedule cannot be found for a volume
(either defined in the config or discovered via metadata) then the script
will abort.

The schedule can contain one of the keys minutes, hours or days.  If the
newest snapshot is older than the schedule, a new snapshot will be taken.

Purge Schedule
--------------

The purge schedule must be defined in the same manner as the snapshot
schedule.

The schedule can contain one or more of the keys hours, days, weeks or
months, with the values being the number of snapshots to keep for that
timeframe.  If more than one snapshot fits within the timeframe, the newest
snapshots are retained.  Anything that does not fit within the configured
number of snapshots per timeframe will be removed.

Usage
-----

./ec2-snapshotter [--configfile file] [--verbose] [--debug]

  configfile defaults to $FindBin::Bin/../etc/ec2-elasticizer.yaml
  verbose is off by default and adds some additional output to the script
  debug turns on Net::Amazon::EC2 debug logging

SNS Notifications
-----------------

If a value is given for 'sns_notify' in the configuration, a brief
notification message will be sent to that topic via Amazon SNS.

Credits
-------

I am indebted to the author of https://github.com/stiang/ec2-purge-snapshots
for the snapshot purge algorithm.  My reimplementation of this algorithm is
drive by a desire to do it in Perl rather than Ruby so that I can make
additional enhancements, and the fact that I wanted something that created
the snapshots as well.

